Dear BSIM Users,
 
Thank you for your support of the BSIM models. We are releasing BSIMSOI4.0 model 
today (November 30, 2005). 

BSIMSOI4.0 addresses several new issues in modeling sub-0.13 micron CMOS/SOI 
high-speed and RF circuit simulation. The plans and progress of the development 
were presented and discussed at several Compact Model Council (CMC) meetings in 
2004 ~ 2005 period. Many inputs from those meetings were incorporated into the model. 
BSIMSOI4.0 is fully backward compatible with its previous 3.X version.

BSIMSOI4.0 has the following major improvements and additions over BSIMSOI3.2:  

1. A scalable stress effect model for process induced stress effect, device 
performance becoming thus a function of the active area geometry and the location  
of the device in the active area;

2. Asymmetric current/capacitance model S/D diode and asymmetric S/D resistance;

3. Improved GIDL model with BSIM4 GIDL compatibility; 

4. Noise model Improvements;
 1) Improved width/length dependence on flicker noise
 2) SPICE2 thermal noise model is introduced as TNOIMOD=2 with parameter NTNOI that 
adjusts the magnitude of the noise density
 3) Body contact resistance induced thermal noise
 4) Thermal noise induced by the body resistance network
 5) Shot noises induced by Ibs and Ibd separated

5. A two resistance body resistance network introduced for RF simulation;

6. Threshold voltage model enhancement;
 1) Long channel DIBL effect model added
 2) Channel-length dependence of body effect improved

7. Drain induced threshold shift(DITS) model  introduced in output conductance;

8. Improved model accuracy in moderate inversion region with BSIM4 compatible Vgsteff;

9. Multi-finger device with instance parameter NF;

10. A new instance parameter AGBCPD to improve gate current for body contact;

11. A new instance parameter DELVTO representing threshold voltage variation;

12. FRBODY is both  instance/model parameter;

13. Updated BSIMSOI4.0 manual.

In addition, eleven bug fixes are implemented in this version.

The BSIMSOI4.0 source code, user's manual, enhancement document, benchmark simulation 
result and bug report can be downloaded at 
http://www-device.eecs.berkeley.edu/~bsimsoi/get.html. 

We have been helped by the input from many users, especially the CMC member companies 
and their representatives. We would particularly like to thank Josef Watts, Keith Green, 
Ke-Wei Su, Richard Williams, Weidong Liu, Min-Chie Jeng, Judy An, Jung-Suk Goo, 
Myung-hee Na, Jean-Paul Malzac, Ben Gu, Jean Remy for their invaluable input and test 
effort. 

We would like to acknowledge the data and support provided by the following companies:  
IBM, TSMC, AMD, STMicroelectronics, Synopsys, Cadence, Silvaco, Freescale. 

We thank you for your support to BSIM and welcome your feedback on this model.

Sincerely,

BSIM group 
UC Berkeley
