Dear BSIMSOI Users,
 
Thank you for your support for the BSIMSOI models. We are releasing BSIMSOIv4.4
today (Dec 20, 2010).

In this release we are providing both the Verilog-A code and C code for the
latest version of BSIMSOI. This is the first release of the Verilog-A version of
the BSIMSOI model. The future releases will only support Verilog-A, C code
support will be discontinued. An archival reference of the C code which matches
the VA code is provided with this release as BSIMSOIv4.4C.

We like to especially thank Geoffrey Coram (ADI) for providing the Verilog-A
version of the code; and Lawrence Wagner and Calvin Bittner (IBM) for their
unparalleled effort to provide derivative fixes in the C code. 

BSIMSOIv4.4 source code was extensively revised, improved and bug fixed through
close interactions among the members of a forum devoted to resolve the key
issues in BSIMSOI. The forum composed of the following CMC member companies
(ADI, Agilent, Ansoft, Cadence, Freescale Semiconductor, GLOBALFOUNDRIES, IBM,
SYNOPSYS and UC Berkeley). We like to thank forum members in general for their
contributions towards making the BSIMSOIv4.4 release possible. We would also
like to thank CMC for providing an excellent platform to facilitate highly
effective interactions among the model developers and usres.  

We believe the release of BSIMSOIv4.4 will greatly benefit the users.

Compared with BSIMSOIv4.31 version, the latest code is modified not to let
negative values of rdsw and rds0 at low temperature, as per CMC guidelines. A
check on the physical thickness and doping level of the channel is also
implemented. The sidewall fringing capacitance model is enhanced as well.

Bug fixes:

The bug fix for derivative expressions in SOIMOD=1 and 2 are extensive for v4.4.
Please refer to the link 'Bugfixes List' through the following URL for bug fix
descriptions.
   

We welcome everyone to visit our website at: 

http://www-device.eecs.berkeley.edu/~bsimsoi/get.html 

The following resources can be accessed and downloaded:

- Complete list of bugfixes and enhancements 
- Complete description of bug-fixes with users who reported them 
- BSIMSOIv4.4 source code 
- BSIMSOIv4.4 user's manual 
- BSIMSOIv4.4 documentations and 
- Testing examples  


We would like to express our sincere thanks to all the users who gave us
suggestions. We specially thank those CMC members working closely as forum
members for improvement of the BSIMSOI code.
  
We thank you for your support for BSIMSOI and welcome your feedback on this
latest release.
 
Sincerely,
 
BSIM Team
UC Berkeley



