Dear BSIMSOI Users,
 
Thank you for your support for the BSIMSOI models. We are releasing BSIMSOIv4.3
today (Dec 31, 2009).

BSIMSOIv4.3 source code was extensively revised, improved and bug fixed through
close interactions among the members of a forum devoted to resolve the key
issues in BSIMSOIv4.2. The forum composed of the following CMC member companies
ADI, Agilent, Ansoft, Cadence, IBM, SYNOPSYS and UC Berkeley). 

The charge derivative issues in v4.2 and earlier are greatly improved in v4.3,
thanks to the efforts of IBM, Cadence and SYNOPSYS. A bug in the spice3f5 noise
evaluation reported to CMC (Q3, 2009) is also resolved, special thanks to ADI.
Description of other bug fixes and modifications can be found at BSIMSOI
website (link provided below). We like to thank forum members in general for
their contributions towards making the BSIMSOIv4.3 code more robust and error
free. 

We believe the modfications implemented in v4.3 will greatly benefit the users.

Compared with BSIMSOIv4.1 and v4.2, no new features are added in this version.

Bug fixes:

The bug fix and other corrections list is extensive for v4.3. Please refer to
the link 'BSIMSOI4.3 Bug Fixes' through the following URL for bug fix descriptions.
   

We welcome everyone to visit our website at: 

http://www-device.eecs.berkeley.edu/~bsimsoi/get.html 

The following resources can be accessed and downloaded:

- Complete list of bugfixes and enhancements 
- Complete description of bug-fixes with users who reported them 
- BSIMSOI4.3 source code 
- BSIMSOI4.3 user manual 
- BSIMSOI4.3 documentations and 
- Testing examples  


We would like to express our sincere thanks to all the users who gave us
suggestions. We specially thank those CMC members working closely as forum
members for improvement of the BSIMSOI code.
  
We thank you for your support for BSIMSOI and welcome your feedback on this
latest release.
 
Sincerely,
 
BSIM Team
UC Berkeley


